There's also been a lot of free stuff on
the internet and one of the reasons it's
been free is because of traffic and
advertising. And so if, you know,
that's not going to get as much
advertising or traffic anymore because
everything is going through an LLM
platform and people just aren't linking
back directly,
the temptation would be to try to make
up that revenue by charging for the
actual content.
Yeah, but that assumes that
what the
AIs want to browse and what the humans
want to browse would be the same thing
and I'm not sure that'll necessarily be
the case where, you know, it'll still be
the case that say for media properties,
you know, that is aimed at human
consumption and so they'll do fine with
the advertising revenue they had. Maybe
they have some incremental revenue that
they can get from
from the AI stuff. And then, I mean,
maybe you're right that like the really
crummy, you know, aggregator pages where
it's like top 10 lists, you know, you
Google something and you get some SEO'd
page and there's like a million Taboola
ads on it that you're trying to click
through and the pop over takes over your
screen, maybe those sites have a harder
time, but I don't think anyone's going
to
really
be too sad about that.
>> [music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway. So,
Tracy, another episode where I can
mention that I've been invited to the
No, but you know what? Here's something
that I may have mentioned before about
>> you have, Joe. But I'm not 100% sure. I
think I've mentioned it. You know, like
the hard It's actually very easy. You
just come up with an idea and you type
it in English and then it's there. You
know the hardest part?
I think I registering a domain.
>> Yeah, you've complained about this. Yes.
>> everything else is so smooth, right? You
just type it in English and then you're
like have of little app or whatever. And
then it's like, "Oh, I want to put this
somewhere on the web." But then you go
to like a domain name registrar. I had
been using a GoDaddy for a long time.
And then it's like, "Then set this field
for this field and this field for this
field and toggle this and this worker
this page is in the A field and the at
field and the B field." And I swear
that's like it's like so maddening. I I
just hated it so much. It's so annoying.
It's the hardest part of the whole
aspect. I have um
terrible memories as well about dealing
with Bluehost and things like that.
>> the first time you've ever set up a
domain? No, there's the thing. This is
the other thing. I've done it before.
Like if I I've done it before and it's
still incredibly annoying. And
>> Progress comes slow to domain
registration. I mean, there's probably
good reason for it to be complicated.
You don't want it to switch in the wrong
direction. Anyway,
I was very excited. So, a couple of
weeks ago, it was actually while um
the two of us were in Madrid, uh the
company Stripe, the payments company,
announced that there was going to be
some uh agreement with Cloudflare with
does a lot of web hosting stuff, where
you could just have the agent register
buy a domain name for you. And so you
think of one and you just type it in,
"Buy this domain name and host it
there." And I immediately like, "Oh my
god." I wrote about it in the
newsletter. It's like, "This would be so
This would have been so nice a month or
two ago."
>> Yet another thing that you will never
have to do again. Exactly. Let another
Yeah. So, I mean, I saw the Stripe news
and it generated a lot of buzz and it
all comes under the umbrella, I guess,
of agentic commerce. So, this idea that
you can have agents that are actually
directly transacting on your behalf with
other agents or other websites. And I
have to say, as someone who shops online
a lot, I this is the first time I feel
disintermediated by AI. I was actually
very Like I'm actually particularly
excited about this episode because I'm
very curious like what Basically what
you specifically will ask as someone as
a person As a professional shopper on
the web.
>> I was going to say as a person of taste.
I was I was going to say
as a person of taste, I have seen you
say scrolling very nice paper like
websites for like wallpapers and things
like that. And I'm curious like what
does it mean for that if like, you know,
that your AI bot 2 years from now knows
you so well that's like Tracy, I thought
you needed this new wallpaper because
you're doing this. I just went ahead and
ordered it to you, it'll be delivered
tomorrow. This changes the world.
>> It brings up so many interesting
questions about discoverability and
taste as you mentioned. And also just
the nature of the internet because when
I think about the internet, you know,
more like a lot of other things, it's
basically built to sell you things
whether that's products or information,
content. And we know that it also runs
on those sales in the sense that, you
know, a lot of the internet is driven by
advertising,
um which is related to traffic,
obviously. We actually did that episode
way back about how the internet runs on
millions of like
>> ad auctions.
>> That's right. And so, this topic of
agentic commerce and the payment system,
obviously it's of interest to anyone who
shops and does stuff online, but it's
also really relevant to the actual
evolution of the internet.
>> Couldn't agree more. I I think it's
really And I would go further and say
it's really important for like and the
you know, culture itself. Advertising is
a creation of culture. Like ads are
influential, ads do all this stuff. What
if there's a changing advertising, all
these kinds of stuff. Anyway,
let's stop hearing from ourselves. We
really do have the perfect guest,
someone we wanted to talk to for a long
time, someone who's right in the thick
of it and all this stuff with agentic
commerce and payments. We're going to be
speaking with John Collison, the
president and co-founder of Stripe. So,
John, thank you so much for coming on
Odd Lots. Great to be here. Uh I'm very
excited. What How do you you know,
buzzwords etc. What is quote agentic
commerce unquote?
Yeah, so there's is a bit of a
definitional question, but broadly it is
AI buying something for you.
>> Okay. Uh and we think about it in two uh
categories. One is on the consumer side
of things. You know, this is where you
were skeptical whether, you know, Tracy
will ever be an adopter, where you, you
know, research [laughter] something in
ChatGPT or Claude or or what have you,
and uh and then go buy it there or have
it buy it for you. Uh but then the
second is your Cloudflare example. And
so, it's B2B or developer-led agentic
commerce, where you're just trying to
have, you know, Claude code do something
for you, and as part of it it needs to
buy resources, and we can talk about
that because they're quite different.
Yeah, Tracy, and we'll get to this, but
the the resources is another thing I've
whined about, which is that when you
you do an API key, you're like have an
idea, and you're like, "Oh, you have to
go to the web." And maybe sometimes you
have to enter credit card number. That's
really annoying, etc. But we'll get into
that, but that is another big element of
it that I feel like is getting closer to
being solved. Okay, well, on this credit
card point, I mean, the history of
online payments is basically like a
continuous elimination of the friction,
right? And going from I have to enter my
credit card details to I have to log
into PayPal to now I can just basically
click a button, whether it's Apple Pay
or or something else.
Is agentic commerce is this just like
another leg of the frictionless process,
or is something fundamental in your view
changing here?
Both. So, part of agentic commerce is
just reducing the friction. And you're
right that the general direction of
travel over time, you go back to the,
you know, introduction of credit cards,
when the earliest uh adopters of
computer networks, and then uh you know,
the originally commerce, and now, like
you're saying, wallets like Apple Pay
and Google Pay, and we have uh a product
called Link and things like that. And
our view is that at a very minimum,
we're going to see, and Tracy, I think
this is where you can maybe get behind
this, is [laughter] leave aside any
agent decision-making that's happening,
just the
final step of buying something. You
know, you might have researched a
product in an AI app before where you're
going back and forth. I was trying to
buy a bike case recently, like you know,
to travel with my bike. And you're
asking all these questions, hard versus
soft, and do you need to take off the
handlebars, and what's the right one?
It's finding all these cool little niche
brands. I think it's actually quite good
for smaller merchants, by the way,
because you have the ability for them to
be discovered that they mightn't have
had otherwise. But anyway, when you find
the product at the very end, do you
really then want to go and be filling
out all these web form fields and things
like that? Or do you want to just say,
"Yeah, that sounds good. Buy it for me
in this size." And our bet is that
people will want the lower friction
option. I think in the history of
technology, the lower friction option
tends to win out. and so we think that
clearly will happen and is happening to
some degree already. It's just the agent
filling out the the the forms for you.
I think where you get this interesting
question is, and when people hear agent
of commerce, I think their mind jumps to
the agent actually having some autonomy
and doing some decision-making for you.
I think there the problem is people
somehow jump to the examples, like
anyone who talks about this phenomenon,
they pick terrible examples. They're
like, "Oh, the agent will book, you
know, all the activities on your
vacation for you." It's like people
think about they daydream about their
vacation all year. That's the fun part.
Researching and booking is the fun part.
That's the fun part. Or similarly, with
like, you know, women's fashion. It's
like the whole point is the scrolling,
you know, not just the buying. And so
people pick these, you know, super enjoy
like it's the robots taking the jobs,
and you know, people want to keep those
scrolling jobs. And so when [laughter]
you think about robots having autonomy,
I would instead proffer some examples
where you really don't need to be, you
know, you give the AI a recipe and say,
"Buy the things that, you know, we need
to make this tonight." And yeah, the AI
can probably guess that you have salt
and you have garlic at home, but you
need the ground pork. Uh or again, you
know, then migrating to the B2B example,
no one needs to configure yet another
domain and go through all those forms if
Cloud Code can uh work with Cloudflare
to buy the domain for you and set it up.
I I I think Joe will be much happier and
not feel like he's missed out on a
valuable life experience.
I want to talk more about the B2B stuff,
but let's for a moment stick around um
on the B2C element cuz though I think
there are gradations of this. So, one is
just, you know, another elimination of
the friction layer.
At the far end of the spectrum,
conceivably, there will be things where
the AI truly does anticipatory buy you
things that you didn't know you needed,
etc. And then there might be like some
middle. I saw this screenshot recently
and I couldn't find it before the
episode. Someone tweeted it. And I'm it
was um it was what someone had like some
retailer, I think it was a shoe
retailer, had put a bunch of shoes on
their website, but instead of like
putting any brand names on the shoe like
we would say like a Nike Pegasus or Nike
Air Jordan, all of the shoes were like
um uh uh
hiking boot that's good for semi-serious
hiker. Do you see this currently where
there's already a change in how
retailers are presenting or displaying
or promoting their wares such that
they're more attuned for what the
chatbot would identify or the AI would
identify as cool versus what a human
influence to influenced by brands would
pick up as cool.
Uh
yes and no. I mean, there's definitely
changes. I think, you know, some of the
stuff that's most notable is often not
the most relevant. It's a little bit
sounds like what you're describing is a
little bit like the um you know, the
Thai restaurant calls Thai food near me
to you know, do best in the the SEO.
But, I think what we see uh as
a kind of maybe a more interesting
direction of travel is again, what's
happening already. Some amount of, you
know, the form fields being filled out
for you and kind of the friction
reduction, and a huge amount of, again,
I presume you guys have both done this,
is research in AI apps. And you know,
the way I would frame that is just
keyword search is ridiculous. Like it's
ridiculous that we we got to the year
2026 relying on keyword search, where
that makes sense for buying a book or a
DVD
where you know the title of the book or
DVD that you're trying to buy, but
that's about the limit of keyword
search. And so the fact that anyone was
trying to buy, you know, furniture or
clothes or anything like that, and there
was this text box at the top of the
website where you put in your keywords.
It's like that's just that's not how
anyone shops in the real world, things
like that. And so we're seeing this AI
powered research where people can
explore product space and start to give
constraints.
And you have this textual
search interface, but you you end up
with kind of much higher quality search,
where it's like, "Okay, I've a spot in
this room where I'm looking for a piece
of furniture that's this wide is max and
this high because I need to fit it in
there." That's the kind of thing that's
just much better suited to the AI
models. So you see different kinds of
product research possible. And like we
said, it's very
um
helpful to smaller brands because people
aren't necessarily stuck behind the
traditional aggregators anymore. They
can break out. And again, I have found
in my little research projects that I
I've done, find drinking a soda, you you
often get these small brands surfaced
that you mightn't have heard of before.
And so we think it's actually probably
quite good for the dynamism. Well, let
me ask Joe's question in a slightly
different way, which is if we assume
that in the future, if I'm a business
selling something online, previously I
was selling to humans more or less. Like
maybe I'd optimize for Google search
results or whatever. But like mostly I'm
trying to appeal to humans. And now I'm
trying to appeal more to agents. What
does optimizing for agents actually look
like?
>> [snorts]
>> Part of it is similar to traditional
SEO, right? So, you want to be legible
to those agents. You want to be
discovered
by them. And
but but part of what
at least I've seen is that the AIs have
pretty good taste. Like Joe, I don't
know if you've found this in your vibe
coding. By the way, Joe, I'm reminded of
it's it's sort of like the old joke how
do you know if if someone vibe codes?
They'll tell you about it.
>> Um
>> [laughter]
>> exactly.
But
>> Guilty, guilty, guilty.
I'm guessing you found that the AIs are
very tasteful at picking libraries and
picking, you know, specific
subcomponents to use. And similarly in
our kind of early experience of the
agent of commerce, they're quite
tasteful in finding tools that suit the
job pretty well. And so, I think you you
you may get this more efficient market
phenomenon where at least in
picking coding libraries or something
like that the AIs are have quite like I
find, you know, when I do stuff, they're
discovering libraries that are perfect
for the job that I hadn't even heard of
or something like that. I think you're
starting to see the same phenomenon with
products where again, I have had the
experience of, you know, I was trying to
find a travel adapter and I found it
from this like tiny company that I had
never heard of was doing exactly what I
want where it's like an integrated
travel adapter and power brick. It's
really good. And
I would never have come across that that
company otherwise. This is incredibly
important because as I mentioned the
beginning,
advertising creates culture. It's part
of culture, especially iconic
advertising. And maybe it'll be a little
while before, you know, the Nikes of the
world there are the Nikes and Apples of
the world they're going to be
advertising for a long time. But like do
you see this eventually as sort of like,
you know, one of the things I think that
the internet appreciates about Stripe as
a the
is you and your brother's commitment to
interesting discussions of economics and
so forth that you talk about econ
history. There are great debates about
whether ad spending is a huge deadweight
loss on the economy or whether it's
something positive, etc. And I'm
curious, like could you see a sort of
post-advertising
future,
you know, at some point on the horizon?
No, I I I think we're quite skeptical of
that for two reasons. One, again,
with agentic commerce, we don't think
the human goes away and the human in the
loop goes away. And there's a huge
amount of agentic commerce that can
happen like we're describing where you
still have the human as the end decider.
And so, it's will likely be the case
that if you are searching for something
If you want a new microphone for the Odd
Lots studio, you might ask it to go
research and it'll present three or four
different options with different
tradeoffs. Like there's no right
microphone. There's going to be kind of
cost tradeoff and things like that. And
then ultimately, you will make a call
and it'll go buy it for you. And when
you make that call, some brand
preference you have, oh, sure, I just
know that they're like the the ones with
the really good sound quality. Not clear
why you have that association. Maybe
there's some advertising in there
somewhere. But so, we think brand
preference and it's part of that
advertising will clearly stick around
because again, it's definitely not going
to be the case that agentic commerce
means no humans
make buying decisions. That's absolutely
not our case. But again, this may be a
good example. You want to buy a new
microphone for the studio. You do a lot
of AI research. You then have a human
decide. And then you do a lot of AI
execution. And so, it's AI on both sides
and then, you know, human
decision-making in the middle. Brand
affinity really matters in that world.
The other thing, of course, is commerce
can be directed or undirected. Where,
you know, in the directed side, like I
was saying, trying to buy a bike case,
it's like there's this thing that I know
I need to go do. I'm going to go do some
research. Previously, you know, a Google
ad might have been are to me, whereas
now it's um
what appears in the the AI search
results. Obviously, that does remove
some advertising, but for now at least,
maybe you know, some of the AI apps at
least choose to bring back some
advertising in those cases. But then a
lot of shopping is undirected where
you're scrolling Instagram and you know,
the joke goes that these days on
Instagram the ads are better than the
organic content because you know,
they've gotten so good with the
targeting and these nice reassuring
things that you might want to buy. And
there that is advertising and you know,
people are going to stay scrolling
social apps and finding cool products
they want to buy. So, I wouldn't be
short advertising in this world. You
know, you mentioned machine readability
earlier. Talk to us about the actual
process of like
converting your catalog into something
that an agent can actually read and how
standardized that is at the moment and
how standardized do you expect it to be
in the future? And then also like if
you're standardizing for machine
readability,
I feel like it's difficult to capture
some of what might make a product like
interesting. It's difficult to like code
the actual vibes of a product even with
LLMs. Like I just find there's something
like difficult to capture. So, talk to
us about how you make you make it so
that agents like fully understand what
is available to them.
Yeah, so there's two levels here. The
first is just
being
known in the same way that you'd be
known to humans because obviously
uh
all the LLMs have read the whole
internet. Uh that's what they're trained
on and they can do web searches. And so,
if you have good product pages that are
informative and lay out the details of
what the product does, if you have
reviews, you know, if there's like a
bunch of Wirecutter reviews, things like
that, you've probably seen this in
uh searches where you know,
uh
the AI app will say, you know, people
love this product and they say XYZ, but
they've read the whole internet. And so,
being known, you know, I'm a big deal on
the internet
helps uh with with the AI apps as it
does for humans. That's kind of step
one. Step two, and where Stripe gets
more involved, is you need a lot of the
mechanical wiring up so that the AIs can
do stuff that are more programmatic. And
this is where our agent to commerce we
used that we, you know, had an
announcement about and this is what
we're working on with Google and
Microsoft and Meta and, you know, Open
AI and all those folks to actually do
some of the commerce wiring up. And
there I'd say it's two things. One is
you need a um
machine
uh compatible way to get the very latest
information about the product details.
So, it's one thing for the AI to have in
its training run, maybe a year ago, read
the whole internet and know that that
this product is good. You need to be
able to tell the AI is it still on sale?
What
SKUs are in stock? You know, which sizes
we have right now and things like that.
And so, that kind of up-to-date, being
able to make real-time calls to the the
seller so that the AI has fresh correct
information that it can present. That's
thing one. And then thing two is wiring
up the agentic checkout so the AI can
actually buy it. And here you get into a
bunch of boring like payments details,
but for example, you want the customer
to be able to buy with their saved
credit card, but you don't want to be
You're not allowed to describe details
as boring on Odd Lots. So, On Odd Lots,
there's no such thing as boring details.
This is the boring details podcast.
Yeah, so talk start Yeah, keep going.
Start. [laughter] Okay, so so then for
actually kind of handling a three-way
transaction where there's, you know, you
in ChatGPT buying a product from this
merchant or something like that, you
know, we're facilitating that
transaction. And there you want to be
able You don't want to be reentering
your payment details on each website. At
the same time, you don't want to be
flinging your payment details around
across different websites. And so, we
built all the wiring up. And also don't
forget a lot of websites have
historically But used to be a bad thing,
you know, they used to discriminate
against bots where they would have bot
protections and things like that.
Whereas now it's like, okay, no, we
actually want agents to be able to do
this. And so you're unwinding some of
the bot protections and having like a
little TSA pre for the bots that we work
with. A way to kind of securely
transfer, you know, one-time use payment
credential and things like this. But
there's a lot of wiring up beneath the
scenes that businesses have to do. This
is actually maybe like a good spot to
slightly segue over into the B2B element
of agentic commerce. Cuz this gets to
another thing that I think about. You
know, I know one of the things that
a valuable training data is literally
just looking at user mouse behavior,
right? Because then theoretically the AI
model can go to a website and click the
buttons just the way a human
want. But it all, you know, it seems
silly to me. Like ultimately, if we're
building a human we're building websites
for human use and then a bot's going to
actually scrape them, why not just
actually build it for bot bots in the
first place? What are we seeing there?
What are you seeing from retailers where
the fundamental experience is it going
to be reshaped such that what we call
the UX, the user experience, is not
really the U is not the person, but the
U is the bot? And is that changing how
the internet is just going to look?
So you're getting to a very core debate
that's happening in AI right now. Like
you know, there are
some of these kind of questions at the
frontier of AI as to to where things go
for practical purposes. But one of them
is when you think about AI adoption for
real-world tasks, there's almost a race
between maybe we make the world
consumable by AI and we make the
websites friendly for AIs to navigate
and you know, things like that. Or maybe
just the AIs get good enough at
unstructured computer use that you give
them you know, a desktop and you give
them a mouse and a keyboard and there's
no backwards compatibility that we
built, but it they just end up figuring
it out anyway, and it feels like over
the next year or two or maybe three,
this question will be resolved. Right
now, a lot of people, including us, are
working on making, you know, the Stripe
dashboard, merchant website, things like
that, consumable by the AIs. And what
that means basically is text where, you
know, the AIs are very good at working
with text, and so you need a textual,
you know, interface for a bunch of
things that previously might have been
clicking around on a website. Sorry,
just to be clear, you know, this reminds
me a little bit about the debate whether
like apps in the app store should be
skeuomorphic or not, but just to be
clear, Stripe is kind of taking a bet on
the other side that actually the
websites that look like they're designed
for humans will not be the way the way
to place your chips.
Well, it's an option, right? Because if
the AIs get really good at computer use
quickly, then it's good, you know, then
then we have that answer. And you're
seeing this a little bit, you know, when
people get their open claw to go buy
something, and it's running on their Mac
Mini at home, you know, the merchant
might say, "Oh, but I don't have an
agentic interface." It's like, "Well, we
we bought it anyway. The claw just went
and did it, and used a headless
browser." And so,
you don't need to do anything to enable
the computer use for others, because the
whole point is that it's fully backwards
compatible with the current world. But,
in the meantime, I think people want to
have these really powerful agentic
experiences. It's a bit of a race,
right? I think businesses correctly want
to be the first ones to capture all this
demand, because I think it'll be the
case if you start getting presented
results in an AI app, and it's like,
"Okay, here are a bunch of options. This
one you can just click buy now, and
it'll arrive in 2 days." Or this one you
have to go to the website and click
around, and blah blah blah blah. I I
think you'll start seeing some consumer
preference for the one that click one,
kind of like on Amazon when there's like
a, you know,
a seller that has Amazon Prime in the
third-party sellers, you're way more
likely to pick that. And you know,
Amazon has done studies on this. You can
imagine an analogous world within the AI
apps where the businesses that support
agentic commerce sooner outperform the
ones that don't. Can you talk to us
about how agentic commerce could impact
prices? And we all know that already
when people are researching for
products, you know, you might put in a
prompt saying like find me the cheapest
pair of, I don't know, sneakers that fit
like the following standard.
And so you could imagine a world where
lots and lots of consumers are being
driven to the cheapest possible option
for their needs. And you could also
imagine a world where maybe shops start
to respond with more sophisticated price
pack architecture, maybe dynamic pricing
or something like that, which makes me
wonder if the future is just going to be
bots like negotiating with each other
over price endlessly. I think it's a
bit I mean, we can all speculate. I
think it's a bit too early to have
realized data there because
one, it's an early phenomenon, and
obviously secondly, the leading edge of
AI apps is is quite high income, which
is not necessarily representative of
what the the durable equilibrium will
be. The one that we think about a lot is
microtransactions are probably going to
be now possible.
And so you probably have this whole
segment of commerce that previously
wasn't over because microtransactions
they never work or never have worked
historically because of the the the kind
of mental load of deciding. Like there's
no point at selling Bloomberg articles
for, you know, 40 cents each because by
the time you've decided you might as
well just, you know, have bought a day
pass or a subscription or something like
that. However, if Bloomberg, and
actually I would love if Bloomberg had a
proper API for their data because if you
want to do anything involving finance,
when you're vibe coding it'd be really
handy to have the Bloomberg data, and
you know, the terminal is not exactly at
the right interface for AI. But selling
Bloomberg data by the sip, so it's like,
"Okay, we're doing a query about the
Strait of Hormuz, you know, let's pull
in the Bloomberg data for that." And you
pay whatever small amount for that one
little data request, that's a
microtransaction that could actually
happen. So, that's the big effect that
we think might, you know, the time is
finally there because the mental load
has traditionally been too high for
humans, but, you know, AI's love
overthinking things. They love
scrutinizing every little decision, and
so we might as well uh do that. This is
something I've been thinking about as
well, if microtransactions become
functional in this way, do people try to
monetize more and more content such that
basically like you're kind of paying a
tax to to browse the internet? By the
way, uh John, I just want to let you
know, I don't know if you know this, but
Bloomberg has actually delegated some of
these big strategic questions to me and
Tracy. I don't know
So, we can They've actually said, "No,
the podcaster should get to decide." So,
that we could work we could actually
talk about this.
>> If you guys could put word in with Mike
and the crew, that just I would like my
my coding agents to be able to talk to
Bloomberg to do data analysis, that
would be really helpful. No, no, we're
messaging him right now.
>> But no, this actually, once again,
perfectly segs to my next question. One
of the things for I hear from, you know,
I've heard for years from my software
developer friends, you know, they use
this um binary, free as in beer or free
as [snorts] in speech, right? So,
there's like software that you can
download for free, and that's uh you
know, that's free as in beer, but then
free can also mean sort of like you can
do anything you want with it, free as in
speech. I'm wondering on this point
whether we need a third sort of one,
free as in roaming, free roaming.
Because every piece of data is
theoretically valuable to a model maker,
and every interaction with a piece of
data, which maybe is called metadata,
that's all that interaction activity is
also very valuable, etc. Given that
every interaction and any version of
that is valuable, are we going to be at
the end of the sort of free-roaming
internet, or will we will we always just
be paying these billionth of a cent
microtransactions, which theoretically
become doable and reasonable as we just
sort of go along the internet, surf the
web, because this is all very valuable
information that's theoretically being
exposed.
I don't think AI is causing the end of
the free-roaming internet because
there's always been a lot of
proprietary stuff.
Uh
you know, newspaper paywalls. I I don't
I don't remember a free-roaming
Bloomberg that I could pay even
pre-the-AI era.
>> [laughter]
>> I I I actually do get the terminal. Uh
sorry. Yes.
I know you really want our terminal.
Anyway, sorry, keep going. Yes. It's too
janky to use because and it's not
>> it. Anyway, keep going. [laughter]
Um so,
there's always been a lot of private
stuff on the kind of consumer side
where, you know, this content is only
available behind a paywall. And then
again to to the data point, there's
Bloomberg and FactSet and F&P and, you
know, all these different providers. And
so, I think what all the providers are
thinking about is
how do I make this stuff available to
the AI without just necessarily making
it available for free. And so, what that
looks like with the data owners is
content licensing deals, right? You
know, Reddit now makes a lot of money
from selling the Reddit data because you
have all this like super interesting
human discussion. You have the
various media publishers either kind of
suing or doing partnerships with or
both, you know, the AI companies. I
think the We're very interested in data
providers generally. Like we did a demo
of sessions as to how, you know, you
could do a financial research project
with your coding agent buying the
information it needs to put together
the, you know, the PDF answer. But,
we're quite early in that journey. But
no, I I think the There's been lots of
proprietary data for a long time. And
so, it's more about how do we open that
up to AI agents. I'm not sure you'd see
that much of a
constriction on what's available on the
free internet. But just to push back on
that a little bit, there's also been a
lot of free stuff on the internet and
one of the reasons it's been free is
because of traffic and advertising. And
so if, you know,
that's not going to get as much
advertising or traffic anymore because
everything is going through an LLM
platform and people just aren't linking
back directly,
the temptation would be to try to make
up that revenue by charging for the
actual content.
Yeah, but that assumes that
what the
AIs want to browse and what the humans
want to browse will be the same thing
and I'm not sure that'll necessarily be
the case where, you know, it'll still be
the case that say for media properties,
you know, that is aimed at human
consumption and so they'll do fine with
the advertising revenue they had. Maybe
they've some incremental revenue that
they can get from
uh from the AI stuff. And then, I mean,
maybe you're right that like the really
um crummy, you know, aggregator pages
where it's like top 10 lists, you Google
something and you get some SEO'd page
and there's like a million Taboola ads
on it that you're trying to click
through and the popover takes over your
screen, maybe those sites have a harder
time, but I don't think anyone's going
to
really
be too sad about that. You've talked
about this yourself, I think in a recent
speech you gave. It's actually
depressing to me because now, thanks to
the vibe the the coding apps, there's a
bunch of stuff I would have liked to
build like say around Twitter data,
right? And there was an actual era in
which a lot of these social platforms
are very open with their APIs, etc. And
now everything's sort of shut down, so
you can't even really, you know, unless
I wanted to spend thousands of dollars,
I could you couldn't really build like
an app that, you know,
does something with someone's Twitter
account, etc. I mean, and I think you
talked about this in your recent speech,
doesn't this further accelerate the move
of everyone to just sort of clamp down
and allow uh people to roam their site
and slurp up data.
Yes, but just to clarify, the human
roaming has, you know, you can still
browse Reddit for free, you can still
browse Twitter for free. What they're
clamping down on in some cases is AI
training scraping where they want to put
a tool on that. And the
maybe they didn't kind of intend for all
that information to be kind of freely
available to the AI apps. And there, you
know, you can argue whether that should
be freely available to, you know, Open
AI and Google and everyone like that or
they should have to pay for it. But it's
not the case that, you know, our
very important intellectual commonses of
Reddit and X and all the other asylums
that we like to frequent
are are going away for us as humans. On
this question, you know, you talk about
microtransactions and people have been
talking about microtransactions for
literally decades, probably. And the
example you gave, oh, why can't
we just buy an article for 50 cents? I
think there's various reasons why that
never took off. But one aspect is just
the cost of a transaction and with it
theoretically, particularly with like
stablecoins, you could have almost free
transactions. Are you seeing actual use
of stablecoins in sort of B2B
transactions
because the sheer cost is so low? Like
where do stablecoins come into this?
Yeah, you're right that when you have
this pay by the sip model, you obviously
just can't, economically speaking, have
kind of a an individual card transaction
per per usage. And by the way, this is,
as you know, the this is the economic
model of the AI economy because you have
marginal cost for each token. And so, no
one really offers an all you can eat
plan. There are lots of, you know, you
can subscribe to ChatGPT or Claude or
something like that. And you'll have a
plan and you'll eventually hit usage
limits, or you can pay on an API basis
and you know, you'll top up with some
amount of credits and then burn down the
tokens. But everyone charges per usage
at some level. And so then what do you
do? And the kind of common mode which we
power a lot of is kind of this
usage-based billing. We actually bought
a company called Metronome to power
that, where you you track credits,
right? And so that's like kind of Telco
billing. You have your card on file and
then you track credits. We are quite
excited about what you're referencing,
which is stable coins for this. You're
asking that kind of how much are we
seeing of it right now? Not that much
yet, but we're building out all the
infrastructure for us. The place where I
think stable coins could be really
exciting is you don't have to then go
have a relationship with all these
services. And so if you want to buy code
a little website and you're like, okay,
I'm going to buy the domain from
Cloudflare and host on Vercel and all
these things. You then, you know, you've
had the experience of you have to go and
sign up for all these services and do
these things. And we think that
experience of signing up for all these
services should go away. And so we are
making it where you don't need to do
that and paying by a stable coins could
be one way where you pay per web request
or, you know, per individual use very
small amounts
and you don't have to go sign up for a
whole bunch of different services.
I So I realize that agentic commerce is,
you know, a spectrum of services,
everything from just simply filling out
a form to delegating, you know, giving
an agent like a certain amount of wallet
spend and saying go off and like figure
out my life for me and spend the
following
on on whatever.
Everyone also likes to talk about bots
going wild, right? And going rogue. And
so I imagine if you were giving an agent
a certain amount of money and telling it
to spend in a certain way, you know,
instruction specificity can vary. But
what happens if things go bad or what
happens if you're simply dissatisfied
with the choice that the agent makes?
Whose fault is that? Like, where does
the liability actually lie?
I think this concern is quite
overstated. Because, one, the agents can
do a huge amount of useful work for you
while they're still a human in the loop.
And so, uh you know, imagine if Claude
Code asks you, "Are you okay if I spend,
you know, this amount?" And you just
have to, you know, hit enter. That's
much better than the experience of
signing up for a service and clicking
around the web face and things like
that. So, you still save a huge amount
of time even if you're kind of reviewing
the transaction. Similarly again, the
consumer use case, the way, you know, we
suggest people visualize agentic
commerce is you still have a human in
the loop deciding, you know, making the
final decision of both what thing I buy
and am I okay spending this much money,
but the AIs can still be hugely
beneficial as part of your shopping
journey even if you're as a human
signing off on that um
transaction. And then you get a bit into
delegated authority. It's kind of like,
you know, we run a, you know, a Stripe,
a large uh uh company and we spend, you
know, billions of dollars a year and
there's lots of delegated authority. And
you might say, "What if you have one
crazy person who makes a bad spending
decision?" And we occasionally have
that. And you know, how do you solve it?
It's like, I don't know. You, you know,
give people spending limits on how much
they can spend and you, you know, whack
them on the knuckles if they uh do
something really crazy and you you just
solve it with kind of sensible limits
and delegated authority and approval
process. And it's it's kind of the same
with the human with an agent. Well, this
gets me to a question I wanted to ask
about running a big company in the age
of AI. Things are changing extremely
fast. And there are certain things that
people were excited about last year that
didn't fizzle out. In the same way,
there are certain things that people got
really excited about even in December
2025 that became the next hot thing. For
Stripe specifically or for a company,
how do you think about say like, "Okay,
here is a thing that we want to exploit.
Here is a moment and we want to take
advantage of it and we're going to build
the thing for this moment, versus we
want to allocate resources for
anticipating what's going to be the
thing 24 months from now, explore where
this is going. How do you think about
the sort of resource allocation between
exploring and exploiting in such a
fast-moving environment from the
corporate standpoint? I would say
you need to be very flexible cuz as you
were saying, you know, if your
information is 3 months out of date or 6
months out of date, it's just woefully
old. And so, we try to be pretty
flexible. And I know there's um
AI somehow brings out a desire for
thought leadership in people, and they
want to have very grand pronouncements,
but yeah. And just I don't know, like we
have more questions than answers, and
we're trying to figure it out as we go
through. So, that's one, is kind of
having the right level of humility. The
second thing is you kind of need to have
the similarly the right level of AI
psychosis. The dose makes the poison,
where you need to to really believe in
the capabilities of the models, but you
also have to be willing to
reason about the limits. And so, to give
you an example, really amazing at
writing code, and huge productivity
uplift there. If you try to do anything
I don't know if you guys have tried to
do anything like a financial analysis
with the models, they're just horrible
at numbers. They're they're innumerous,
and they can kind of fool you because
they can put together something that you
know, they can build a really nice
spreadsheet, but you're like, but the
numbers just like go completely wrong
halfway through the spreadsheet. Like,
oh, great point, you're absolutely
right. And so, you need to have kind of
a a bit of a fingertip sense for what
the models are good at versus bad at.
I kind of think of this in you split up
the company into the traditional, you
know, there's R&D, go-to-market, and
G&A. And you think about the different
domains, they work quite differently.
Within engineering, engineers have
always been passionate about tools and
better tools, and
any kind of a half self-respecting
engineer is very eagerly adopting AI.
you don't get too many laggards. And so,
we have seen a huge amount of adoption
within software engineering at Stripe.
That's going really quickly. I don't
think we're at the end of days, but
we're pretty like that machine, I would
say, is pretty well set up to be in this
self-improving loop because the people
who are kind of doing the engineering
day in day out also think about how can
I better automate this process? How can
I use AI to to to to make it work
faster? And so, you know, a lot of bugs
that are fixed at Stripe, no one ever
opens an editor for them. You know, they
just hit the fix this bug button in the
interface, and that's done
intelligently. So, that that that that's
software engineering. On [snorts] sales
and kind of go to market, what helps you
is that it is the most measurable domain
inside of tech companies and companies
broadly. And so, you can reason about
the specific productivity of a specific
sales person in a way that you can't
with a software engineer
or, you know, a lawyer or something
where any kind of metric there is very
subject to Goodhart's law. Whereas with
go-to-market, it's measurable. And so,
we have seen, at Stripe at least, our
sellers are super into AI. They're
adopting it very eagerly. And, you know,
you can't ascribe causality in the
productivity numbers, but the
productivity numbers are very good. The
place where I think it's trickiest is
within the other general functions. You
think about legal and finance and risk
and things like that. And there there is
a lot of AI happening, but it's just
tricky because one, so there's a huge
amount of infrastructure work that needs
to happen. It's like, okay, we actually
have to get this financial data into a
form where it's usable by the AIs, and
we used to keep it under lock and key,
and now we need to kind of load it in a
way that the AI can use. So, we had a
big infrastructure build at Stripe to
make the data usable to the AIs, but
also kind of keep it locked down
appropriately and things like that. And
then, like I said, the AIs are just
uneven in which domains they are good
at. And so, if it is a coding problem or
if it could be turned into a coding
problem, very good at that. The public
tax code and the public legal code,
they're very good at that because it's,
you know, text that they've been trained
on. But, working with, I would say,
specific financial data at Stripe or
kind of specific internal stuff that we
have, that's just kind of harder to get
good results out. It's not impossible,
and the models will improve a lot, but I
would say that is kind of the trickiest
domain to get get great results.
So, just going back to the beginning of
this conversation, we talked about how
the internet, you know, basically runs
on commerce. And if the nature of that
commerce is changing, you would expect
some impact on the internet. We've been
asking you various questions about that,
but I'm just going to ask you very
directly. What is your sort of broad
vision of the internet in the world of
agentic commerce?
We're very excited for the intelligence
explosion. And so, in our pocket of the
internet, uh we are seeing much more
entrepreneurship happening. That shows
up in the numbers. So, to give you a
sense, um new business creation on
Stripe in Q1 was up 71% uh year over
year. Uh
that's, you know, the the business
generally is not growing that quickly.
It's like the leading edge uh numbers
are seeing much more business creation.
You see this in other numbers, too. So,
the um App Store like number of app
launches uh was quite flat for many,
many years, and now it's seeing kind of
similar growth uh to that. And so,
they're going to be
many, many uh fruits of the uh
intelligence explosion. But, we get
quite excited about the idea that you
have more people creating companies, and
maybe
you get more dynamism, right? You know,
we talked about some of the effects
where, you know, you'll maybe see more
price competition. It It'll be If you
work at a big company and you think,
"Hey, the way we are doing this is
really silly. I could do it so much
better." The bar to you being able to
quit the company and develop a, you
know, competing better offering is is
now lower uh because you have more, you
know, power available to you. You can
recruit the the intelligence that's
available to you. And so, our prediction
is that you get more economic dynamism,
which we're already seeing in our
leading edge numbers. You know, we're
seeing more startup formation. But, uh
you know, we talked about this at Stripe
Sessions, you know, kind of an Coasean
sense, maybe you see smaller firms and
more of them because it's easier for
them to coordinate with each other.
John, uh I have like a million more
questions for you, but I'm aware of the
time. So, let's just leave it there.
This was such a treat. Really enjoyed
getting the chance to uh talk and would
love to have you back sometime.
Absolutely. Would love it.
Tracy, I really thought that
conversation was super interesting. I do
I mean, just to start, there's a lot
here. This is a big deal. I think like
we where it's going to go,
the question of whether just commerce
directly and then also your question of
the internet more broadly, there's some
pretty big questions. Some pretty big
implications from which way some of this
stuff unfolds. Yeah, and I'm glad that
John appreciates the uh the enjoyability
of scrolling. Yeah, well, yes, abso- I
do have questions about, I guess,
discoverability when it comes to agents.
So, you know,
everyone by now knows the example of
like you go on Netflix, the first video
or movie, TV series you ever watch is
incredibly important because the
algorithm sort of builds itself around
that one choice. And if you watch
something stupid, then forever and ever
it's going to like pinpoint
as this one demographic. So, there is a
tendency for algos to sort of cluster
among like recognizable patterns. So, it
becomes harder to discover new things,
new products. I will say some algos
obviously do it better than others.
YouTube's algorithm I find like actually
really phenomenal for for resurfacing or
Well, surfacing new things. Well, within
LLM's itself, I find memory to be a very
um double-edged sword, which is on some
level I do think it's more useful when
it knows a little bit about the context
of the user.
>> Yeah. But there'll be times when they'll
shoehorn any like you did a query 6
months ago and it'll try to bring it
back around to that. I think like
there's a lot there. I think there's a
lot there with like the future of
advertising or just setting aside what
is the equivalent of SEO in the LLM? We
should probably do an episode from the
perspective of retailers that are really
having to think about how they surface
within
>> Totally. So that that That in itself is
a huge shift. If Yeah. you're a retailer
and now you're trying to target, you
know, bots as well as humans. And then
the overall question of what happens to
the internet in this new world? Like
I tend to be very cynical about the
overall direction of the internet and
just assume that every new advance in
technology is going to make it worse.
But like you could see a future where
the ability to do seamless
microtransactions
basically means that like everyone
starts charging for their content, for
their APIs and Yeah. you actually have
to pay a fee to be on the internet. This
is what I mean. Like the end of free is
an interesting I think is an interesting
question. I also just like personally, I
find it very validating that like I'm
not crazy that actually like being able
to do something in a
like buying a domain name is something
that people other people thought needed
to be solved. You know what I'm saying?
Like so like some of these things like
seem very that that Stripe announced in
the last couple weeks related to both
the domain name question, the related to
being able to um
pay an API directly rather than go to a
website and enter your credit card and
stuff like that for credits or whatever.
I found these things to be very annoying
and big deals and I'm sort of glad that
like
I feel less crazy. Like actually these
are annoying things within the new
contemporary landscape. Absolutely. And
speaking of annoying things, I also feel
like a big chunk of the future is going
to be bots just like negotiating with
each other. And I've already heard in
the insurance sphere, you know, you've
heard of insurers using AI to like bulk
deny claims, right? And then I've heard
of new AI startups or existing companies
using AI to contest the insurers like
push back. And so like it just feels
like it's just going to be bots like The
only money makers are going to be um
chip companies in Korea
because they're everyone's going to be
having to get more powerful chips and
old boomer landlords in San Francisco
because the employees of Open AI and
Anthropic need a place to live. And
healthcare. Yeah. All right, shall we
leave it there? Let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Alloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow John Collison. He's at
Collision. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Armadesh, Albin at
@dashbot, Caleb Brooks at @calebbrooks,
and Kevin Lozano at Kevin Lloyd Lozano.
And for more Odd Lots content, you
should check out our daily newsletter.
You can find that at
And you can chat about all these topics
24/7 in our Discord, discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoyed this conversation,
then please leave a comment or like the
video or better yet, subscribe.
Thanks for watching.
>> [music]